# OpenFlight Omnibus Builder

Build infrastructure for creating platform-specific builds of OpenFlight projects with Omnibus.

## Overview

The OpenFlight Omnibus Builder repository provides build instructions and configuration to allow complex OpenFlight projects to be built for distribution for particular platforms (primarily Enterprise Linux) using [Omnibus](https://github.com/chef/omnibus).  This allows them to be shipped along with their necessary dependencies on versions of upstream projects that aren't made available as part of the distribution, for e.g. more advanced Ruby versions, latest VNC servers etc.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

The build infrastructure requires that you have a working [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) installation.

### Install the build environment

#### Clone the repo

Firstly, clone the repo!

```
git clone https://github.com/openflighthpc/openflight-omnibus-builder
```

#### Initialize build VM

Bring up the EL7 build VM:

```
cd openflight-omnibus-builder
vagrant up
```

The EL7 build VM will be provisioned with the required tools including required distribution dependencies via `yum` and an RVM installation of Ruby 2.6.

Access the build VM using `vagrant ssh`.  The build infrastructure is mounted within the guest at `/vagrant`.

#### Create project builder

This repository contains a Thor template designed to ease the initialisation of an Omnibus builder for a new project.

```
vagrant ssh
cd /vagrant/generator
bin/thor generate_builder EXECUTABLE REPO_NAME FRIENDLY_NAME
```

where, in the case of, for example, Flight Desktop, the required arguments resemble:

```
bin/thor generate_builder desktop "flight-desktop" "Flight Desktop"
```

A simplistic builder will be generated in the working directory. Copy this directory to `/vagrant/builders` and make any project-specific changes to it before continuing to build. See [docs/omnibus.md](the builder docs) for more info with regards to further configuration options.


#### Initialize build infrastructure within the VM

Log in to the build VM and set up the Omnibus build infrastructure.

```
vagrant ssh
cd /vagrant/builders/flight-example
bundle install
```

## Building a project

The build infrastructure is set up so as not to need root access.  This is important because, when building and installing complex projects, the installation of any software dependencies that attempt to write outside of the `/opt/flight` hierarchy will fail fast allowing potential problems to be corrected.

To build a project, enter the project directory within `/vagrant/builders` and issue the `omnibus build` command, e.g.:

```
cd /vagrant/builders/flight-example
bin/omnibus build flight-example
```

Once the build has completed, the RPM package will be available in the `pkg/` subdirectory.

### Including static React components
Sometimes (mostly, in React apps), you may wish to include a static JS file that has been created by the [Flight UMD Builder](https://github.com/openflighthpc/umd-builder). To do so, a new step should be added to the Omnibus builder file to download, build, and import the static JS file. Please note that the changes made here assume that: the package being imported has the UMD builder set up as part of the branch being used (see UMD builder repo for setup info); the package being built with Omnibus contains the logic to import the files generated by the UMD builder (for example, a webapp would need script tags in the headers to import the JS file).

The step should be added to `config/projects/<package>.rb` among the dependencies. The name you give the dependency should match a file you will create in the `config/software/` directory.

In the `config/software/` directory, create a `.rb` with the same name as the dependency step you added before. The goal of this file is to clone the desired package from Github; clone the UMD builder into the directory; and build the static copy of the component(s). An example may look like the following, where `<umd-buildable-package>` is the package being imported:

```ruby
require 'zlib'
require 'minitar'

name '<umd-buildable-package>'
default_version '0.0.0'

# Git repository URL
source git: "https://github.com/openflighthpc/<umd-buildable-package>"

skip_transitive_dependency_licensing true

build do
  env = with_standard_compiler_flags(with_embedded_path)

  # Build flight-webapp-components and the login menu
  block do
    # Build <umd-buildable-package>
    command "cd #{project_dir} && /opt/flight/bin/yarn install", env: env
    command "cd #{project_dir} && /opt/flight/bin/yarn run build", env: env

    # Build <static-js-file>
    command "cd #{project_dir}/builder && /opt/flight/bin/yarn install", env: env
    command "cd #{project_dir}/builder && /opt/flight/bin/yarn run build", env: env

    # Move newly generated static js to install directory
    FileUtils.mkdir_p(File.join(install_dir, "content", "js"))
    command "cp " \
            "#{project_dir}/builder/build/static/js/main.js " \
            "#{install_dir}/content/js/imported-package.js"

    # OPTIONAL: Move newly generated CSS file to install directory
    command "cp " \
            "#{project_dir}/builder/build/static/css/main.css " \
            "#{install_dir}/content/styles/importedpackage.css"
  end

  # Clean up imported package dir
  FileUtils.rm_rf(project_dir)
end

```

The above code block will:

- Clone the Github repository containing the UMD buildable package
- Create a Yarn build of the package
- Use the Yarn build to build/export a static JS file containing the desired component(s)
- Copy the built static files into the `content/[js/styles]/` directory(s) in the built Omnibus package
- Continue building the Omnibus package as normal.

## Testing built packages

The `Vagrantfile` also contains a definition for a simple VM you can use to test built packages.  Manage and access the test VM using the `test` definition:

```
vagrant up test
vagrant ssh test
```

Similarly to the build VM, the build infrastructure is mounted within the guest at `/vagrant` where you can find the packages you built within the build VM, for e.g.:

```
sudo -s
cd /vagrant/builders/flight-example
yum install pkg/flight-example-someversion.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

## Uploading built packages to the `yum` repo

Once a package is built, the result can be uploaded to a `yum` repository.

### Publishing to the development repo

OpenFlightHPC contributors who have been provided with permissions to publish to the OpenFlight `yum` repositories on Amazon S3, can use the `scripts/publish-rpm.sh` script to push an RPM to the development repository.

First, add your AWS credentials:

```
aws configure
```

Next, publish the RPM that you've built:

```
scripts/publish-rpm.sh builders/flight-example/pkg/flight-example-someversion.rpm
```

Users of the `openflight-dev` repository will then have access to install the new RPM via `yum` on their systems.

### Promoting to the production repo

Once the RPM has been tested, you can promote it to the live/production repo using the `scripts/promote-rpm.sh` script:

```
scripts/promote-rpm.sh flight-example-someversion
```

Note that the script does not take a file path, but takes a name pattern to match one or more RPMs that are present in the development repo.

Once the RPM is published to the production repo, users of the `openflight` repository will have access to install/upgrade to the new RPM via `yum` on their systems.

# Contributing

Fork the project. Make your feature addition or bug fix. Send a pull
request. Bonus points for topic branches.

Read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

# License

Eclipse Public License 2.0, see [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for details.

Copyright (C) 2019-present Alces Flight Ltd.

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under
the terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
[https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0),
or alternative license terms made available by Alces Flight Ltd -
please direct inquiries about licensing to
[licensing@alces-flight.com](mailto:licensing@alces-flight.com).

OpenFlight Omnibus Builder is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the [Eclipse Public License 2.0](https://opensource.org/licenses/EPL-2.0) for more
details.
